Lilliana Robinson: So we are joined by John Hill. John Hill is a big name at Tech Stars. His formal title is Tech Stars Evangelist. So flies around the country, spreading the good word of tech stars. But today he's here to teach you guys about network. And that's really John's superpower. So he'll teach you all about how to take advantage of the textures network. And then a few things about Linkedin.
Lilliana Robinson: where I kind of gave you guys a foreshadowing about that, but feel free to think of questions that you may have for John, after everything we've told you about him, and then I'll just get the floor to you.
John Hill: You're awesome, my friend. Tell everybody, I said. Hey.
John Hill: I so II am John Hill. I'm the evangelist at Texas. Fancy term for storyteller. I I've been in this role for a couple of years. On behalf of Texas. I think I've spoken in 43 countries now on 43 or 44 states. So slowly checking off all those ego metrics. But what it's allowed me to do is I work with the best entrepreneurs on the planet.
John Hill: And I see ecosystem after ecosystem and the one beautiful thing about entrepreneurship is. It's the same everywhere.
John Hill: And also your primary needs are the same, no matter what funding, talent, customer, acquisition, knowledge, share, and mentorship. And so I first 8 years the reason that I know that I surveyed founders heavily as Vp of network. My role was to cross, connect the entire
John Hill: Texas entrepreneurial network founders, mentors, investors, corporate partners, community leaders on and offline. And then, before that, I worked at a little company you may have heard of before called Linkedin it was infused in a product team there we built 5 products that reached about 85 million people in the timeframe. I was in that role.
John Hill: I and I ended up being the lead product, Walkthrough, specialist for the organization also an evangelist at Linkedin. So I've held that
John Hill: role that nobody understands. Twice. Ii started in career services. I actually cut my teeth as a journalist and studied history my dad used to say, was allergic to money. But I ended up an editor for National Sports Magazine, and II
John Hill: I was the youngest person in the company. I they organization had a circulation of 1.3 million we did precision annuals for college, pro football, college, pro basketball, baseball, golf as a college basketball expert use that term loosely, and II
John Hill: I had the CEO walk in my office one day and say, Hey, you're the youngest person in the company, and we need to. We need to start a website. Can you help us out?
John Hill: And II,
John Hill: had no technical acumen whatsoever. I was just young. And I'm like, sure. So this is 1997 hire a programmer. We pulled them in slowly on. And you've never heard this story. By by the way, cause, I've just recently started telling it. But I hired a programmer and started building a website. And through that process I realized that web 1.0 opened up an opportunity to engage people essentially utilizing sports as a way to cut through marketing clutter.
John Hill: and I built a company, I in the build of that company. I started pitching Fortune 500 companies. What we were trying to do to help them reach their respective customers, and I ended up pitching at Jimbeam, Dixie, Sylvania Pepsi 1 million dollar programs, and they were buying them. And I think it was cause I was young.
John Hill: I made every mistake you could absolutely make as an entrepreneur like every single one. The whole experience for me was lonely, mentally taxing the only other tech company in the area. I was in Nashville, Tennessee, was in a company called Rivals. That did message boards for athletics. So we commiserated with each other. But I had no mentorship. I had no investors. I mean everything that was happening around
John Hill: entrepreneurship were on the coast, specifically New York and San Francisco at that time, and in the Tennessee region. If you owned a used car lot, you were an entrepreneur, so they didn't even know what I was.
John Hill: Ended up leaving all my equity on the table, and that company still exists. This is one of the reasons I don't talk about it. I they generate revenue on an annual basis, and I see nothing from it. So that was the moment in my career where I was like, I'm gonna help entrepreneurs any way, shape or form I can forever. And I'm gonna utilize organizations as vessels to do that.
John Hill: I 2,009 recession hits in the State of Michigan. I'm the Director of Alumni care services, and I do some novel things around Linkedin to retrain the workforce within the State in our alumni base, which is what lend me to getting hired by Linkedin.
John Hill: But I also was part of a group that wanted to change the wind around automotive and government, which work together in the State and create another pillar around economy. So I. We brought the first Tedx to the State of Michigan. First ignite
John Hill: first start of weekend started the first university accelerators. First, creative spaces based on, like Richard Florida's creative class approach. The first incubators. Really, the first places that were Co. Working spaces for entrepreneurs, and then turned our burgeoning social networks to support innovators, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs
John Hill: within detroit and again change the wind in that space. So I'm now on 27 years of supporting, helping, commiserating, engaging with entrepreneurs. This is life's work, and I I've never felt like I've had a job, and getting to engage with all of you makes this
John Hill: like the most special job in the world. I'm like Super humbled to be able to get in front of people again and again and again like this. This is the 270 s time that I've given this talk power the network. So I've done it a few times. I'm actually wearing the sweatshirt and the first program that I didn't hit in which is Boston. And I didn't do this on purpose. It's what I picked up
John Hill: out of my sweatshirt, or but it's the Boston 2,014 program is the first one I did in. And I, it's been just a heck of a ride. So what I'm gonna try to do today is give you as much of an optimized version of how to navigate relational capital a great opportunity for all of you. And again, to satiate those primary needs, funding, talent, customer, acquisition and knowledge share mentorship.
John Hill: I'm gonna go through scope and scale of the network. So what it looks like now. So you have an idea of what you just walked into, because really it's your Tahoe experience, or it's this zoom right now. I I've for Texers, but it's so much broader than this we did eventually build the most effective, largest entrepreneurial network in the world, and I'm gonna try to help you tap into it as effectively as possible.
John Hill: So I'm gonna run through at the speed of light. I'm in Boston right now born in Boston grew up in the area your conversational irrelevant. If you don't talk fast as I get I going, I talk faster and faster. If you need me to slow down. Let me know. I just get excited. So like, that's what's gonna end up happening here. The cool thing is, every time I give this presentation is different, because I use inputs from all of you.
John Hill: To show it. And so I'll actually show you through your eyes and how to navigate the relationships, and we'll do that real time. I'm I'm highly interruptable. So like, I have like 12 h of material on my head. If you want to go deeper in an area. Let's do it, and we'll go and drill, and I'll tell you if I can. But if I can, I'll go as far as you want to go
John Hill: on things I and I, you know, like I'm here for best interest of all of you. So II unfortunately, obviously through an experience like this, can't meet all of you one on one
John Hill: what I can do is give you my contact information. And if you want to send, set up time to talk.
John Hill: I and I can go through like a 30 min. Talk to learn about your company, and then also show you how I would navigate relational capital and specifically Texters text. But I, the success of your company. You know, feel free to connect with me on john.hill@techstars.com. And I think somebody yeah, there we go off, mute super, easy to find on social. I'm at techstars, John on Twitter, on threads, on Instagram. Any future social.
John Hill: I'm John Hill on Linkedin. If you can't find me, you're not looking, I promise super easy to find there. So best way to characterize me, and like the Texas ecosystems, I I'm like Morgan Freeman and the Shawshank for redemption. I'm like I can get you things. Textures is my prison yard. It's probably where, like the analogy falls down a little bit. But like I'm a good person to know. So just keep that in mind, and to give you an idea of what you just walked into, and for me, it's like mind blowing to see how far we've come.
John Hill: I'm
John Hill: you are now part of 9,000 founders and participants who have gone through a textiles program to date like that's a small university. And again, like I've spoken this talk 271 times, which means over a decade. We've developed
John Hill: and network around founders that is supportive of itself. What that means to all of you is your foundation for building relationships. Are these people all these people who are in the same situation, or we're in the same situation you're in right now. They've gone through the credibility lens to get into tech stars. You don't have to double off to any of these people.
John Hill: You don't have to go through me, or Liliana, or Neil, or anybody associated with techstars. You can just direct connect with them, and I'll tell you how I would
John Hill: best design that network in a bit. But just know, like these are your friendlies. Connect with them ad nauseum.
John Hill: Alright. So second group to look at. Here are mentors. We've actually had 12,000 mentors Mentor a Texas program to date. 4,000 active in the last year. And I, what I always love to talk about with the mentors. I was in charge of the global Mentor network for 5 years
John Hill: is what they're what are their motivations and what it bubbled down to is really 4 main reasons that mentors connect with all of you through us. We don't pay them. So it's on their own volition. The number one reason that people mentor is altruism. They just wanna give back. That's like a super easy one to engage with. The second one is important, for later in this presentation they want insights into technological trends.
John Hill: You give people a view of what the world looks like 2 to 5 years from now.
John Hill: And and that's a give that you have, and I'll I'll define that a little bit more deeply in a bit. Third, they're interested in their own opportunities. Board work, advisory work, sea level positions in your company, for they're interested in qualified deal flow. So if they get to know you.
John Hill: and they like your product and service, they'll marry those 2 things together to invest in you so that one is also important. We're gonna get back to that in a bit. But mentors you can find out. Ask them, why are you mentoring? They'll generally tell you, and then you can communicate accordingly, based on which bucket they fall into. So the last one, our investors, 23,000 investors have been invested in have invested in a tech service company to do
John Hill: just a little trick for all of you. Best way to become qualified. Deal flow for an investor is to get an introduction for somebody they've already invested in. So any investors you're looking at that have invested in tech sales companies reach out to those texts founders and ask for an introduction into the investors. Obviously broker the relationship a little bit
John Hill: while you're doing that. This is an underutilized part of the techs network for founders. Partly because it feels like a separate group but we acquired up global startup weekend startup weekend in 2,015, we operate that in 170 countries. And we have about 1,500 people leading ecosystem work to develop startup weekend startup weekends in their respective countries.
John Hill: which means, anywhere you go in the world. There's somebody who understands the lay of the land the corporates that are friendly, and the approaches to take with them the talent that's within the market. The other entrepreneurs, the innovators. They can give you an idea of how to sell into, or how to live, or how to start an office within those spaces so great people to reach out to so for me. I the reason that I've stayed at hexers for a decade is
John Hill: network. It is unbelievable. I
John Hill: we've collected some of the best atoms in the world, and you know I'll teach you how to smash against the other atoms here. But I always love this slide. Because of David Cohen at the center of it. Yeah, he's actually the reason I'm here.
John Hill: David, one of the founders in 2,006 techs are started was the Md. Of the first accelerator in 2,007 in Boulder.
John Hill: David David Brown, Brad felt Jared Polis for people who like get this off the ground. But Cohen is
John Hill: kind of like my spirit animal in a way, like he's the person who kinda guides me directionally, I and I was working at Linkedin in 2,013 and while I was at Linkedin I was the external phase. So I spoke at 200 universities, 110 conferences in higher education, 23 countries. While we're trying to get people to adopt our product.
John Hill: specifically, faculty and stuff. So if any of you are working in universities, we should definitely talk.
John Hill: But II used to do those conferences, and I would run into these little Ed tech companies that I absolutely fell in love with, and I would give them like
John Hill: access to our Api, or preferred partnerships with Linkedin at the time anything I could do to help them. And a couple of those companies were techstars companies. And so in 2,013 that summer David Cohen sent out a note to the founder network. There were about 280 companies at the time, and said, We're looking at building a alumni network similar to a university. Do you know anybody who might be able to help us with that? And my name floated up a couple of times.
John Hill: and so in August of 2,013, I got a call from Ari Newman, who was in the first program of Texas with his company filter box, and was the third acquisition ever in the history of techs and David Cohen, I brought him in to help start to think about, how do I build structures around
post program connectivity. So
John Hill: historically, what had happened as you'd go through this 13 week program, we were surrounded with ventures and investors, knowledge here similar to what you're going through right now and then. When you graduated there was no connection back that was structured. So it was all ad hoc. And so Ari had started the first steps, but I talked to him
John Hill: While I was like driving into Linkedin one day, and I what was supposed to be a 15 min conversation turned into 2 h, and I was fascinated about what he was talking about, which was building an alumni network in something that was historically transactional venture capital and
John Hill: like connecting a emotional can attachment to it. Because what you go through through this program is the best supplied education on the planet, and the proximity develops relationships that can be utilized long term. And so like that was novel like corporates hadn't built alumni networks yet. Venture hadn't even started on the idea of platforms yet. And so this is like all new.
John Hill: And so I agreed in October of 2,013, to fly out to Chicago because Texos was having an annual event to bring. All of their founders together, called Founder Con, to meet with David Cohen and David brown to the founders to tell them how, if I were them, they should build out an alumni network similar to a university to support all of you.
John Hill: I so I was on my way to speak in London. Stop by Chicago for like 3, 4 h, and I pitched them on what I would do. And in the course conversation David goes, hey, I think we can build the largest, most effective entrepreneurial network in the world.
John Hill: and I'm like, it's a little bit hyperbole, and by the way, I work at Linkedin, we already did it. But, you know, like I appreciated where he was coming from, and it was definitely a bee hag, a big, hairy, audacious goal, and that was one of the hooks. But for me I've always been a believer of Karma.
John Hill: and utilizing your network as a vessel to support other people's dreams, and how that
John Hill: like circles back into you?
John Hill: And so I'm caught on stage 15 years ago talking about give, give, give, give to your network, with no expectation of receiving pay it forward like these ideas that you just need to be a good purveyor of relationships and networks. And you know, whatever happens downstream happens.
John Hill: David was articulating something super similar to that, and I've never heard of corporate.
John Hill: Define what he was talking about, which was like, we have this emotional connection through going experience like this, like all of you were going through right now. How do we optimize for that support and help each other out? Right? How do we create this as a collective, and I and what he was defining was the major hook that got me here?
John Hill: Which was this idea of give first, and I it's simple an application like if I reach out to one of you in your tech service, and I'm Techstar's expectation as you respond. You've already gone through the credibility lens. I don't have to worry about any of that right.
John Hill: And then if you reach out to somebody else in the network and they have something that you know, like they might be able to give you with advice or help or introduction, whatever they respond. Right? That's it. It is super simple
John Hill: in application, but
John Hill: unbelievably powerful and develop of large scale networks. And so like using this as a premise, this is your opening to the entire network. I'm gonna start to take you into a walkthrough
John Hill: on Linkedin to show you how you can actually tactically navigate this network as effectively as possible. So this next 2530 min is why they pay me this will be the opportunity for me to show you how you can navigate these relationships as effectively as possible. And so let me start with
John Hill: a kind of a general premise that the vast majority of you are on this platform, but you're not on it strategically.
John Hill: and there's a reason for that. Linkedin's uiux sucks. And somehow, through time and Okr, they've made it suckier. So they hide some of the best value on this platform. So I'm gonna start to uncover this for you. And I'm gonna start with something that's super unique to Linkedin but also unbelievably powerful for you to see the relational capital emanating out of your organization right now.
John Hill: So if I go into my network, your network, hey? My friends? If I go into contacts.
John Hill: I can actually export all my first level connections out of Linkedin. If I select this little radio button hit request Archive Linkedin will send me a Csv file to my email of record of all my First level connections, names, titles, companies, industries, and any Inmail communication we've had on platform a Csv file. Fancy term for excel. And what I can do with that is what I like to call a relational swap. So I can start to look through my relationships based on job type
John Hill: based on decision maker whatever. And I can see where I'm strong on relationships, and I can see where I'm weak.
John Hill: which allows me to create strategies to hire in to the people who can fill the bucket who have the relationships. I don't have right now, or work
John Hill: to build my relational network that covers the people that I need to get into and connect into connect with. Now I can take that a step further. If you are a company with 2, 3, 4, 5 people right now, if you were all to download your connections.
John Hill: Put it into one file, Dupit. You have every relationship emanating out of your company right now and again from an aggregate level. You can do that relational swap. So you can start to see from an organizational standpoint where you're strong on relationships and where you're weak. I always find it fascinating. All of you will develop strategies around product development or go to market or whatever. But you rarely do this around relationships which I would argue are the most important
John Hill: important thing associated with your build-up company. Now, one of the things that doesn't come out in the Csv file or emails.
John Hill: They are on all the public profiles. And that's actually an important point to stop at for a second Linkedin's terms of service. Did you? A incredible solid. All your first level connections that are public have agreed to communication both on and off platform, which means on platform and mail off platform through email. So if any of you were trying to do business in places like Europe, Gdpr is a gating for communication.
John Hill: I, the emails that you send that are First Level connections past Gdpr. Muster, all you have to do is have an opt out now getting them.
John Hill: You're probably going to have to copy and paste into that. Csv file excel. But none of you were. Gonna do that. You can go into discord. Through Texas universe and ask if any tech source founders have built a script that matches the emails to the data that you just took out in that Csv file, and invariably they have. I always wanted your muff at that point, because I'm a former spokesperson for Linkedin.
John Hill: and I'm essentially telling you how to scrape data. And now I'm being recorded saying that. But whatever yeah, fair enough. But you know, like I tell you that because you do have access if you need it. So if I come back to the homepage I don't actually like this search. It's an editor search. So as I type, it tries to figure out what I want, I actually like going through data. And if you think about the 1 billion users on here. It's the biggest repository of professional data and affiliate data in the world.
John Hill: And there used to be an old way to navigate the relationships and the navigation on here that still exists. So if I come here I can go to this search with filters.
John Hill: And this was the former primary navigations hidden back here, people, jobs, companies, groups. So anybody who's had a profile for more than 10 years will remember that still love that could go through any of those. But I'm actually gonna focus on this since default into all my first level connections. So you can see, I have 11,000 connections. And I'm gonna go through 2 principles that are super important for me right now with you on a relational standpoint. But I wanna go back to this in just a second. And this but I'm gonna stop sharing
John Hill: and just talk about a little bit of
John Hill: how you build what I call a quality network against a quantity network. So a big believer in that.
John Hill: And the second principle that I'll talk about is how to build you know, to build a network before you need it. So it's there when you do.
John Hill: And that one, I was actually learned by the work that I did as Director of Alumni Care services at Michigan State University. When the automotive industry drove off the cliff, we had 260,000 alumni directly and directly tied to the automotive industry. Those people had only built Cds and resumes around automotive. They'd only built networks around automotive. So when the jobs dried up.
John Hill: they didn't have the opportunity to jump into other verticals because they hadn't built the networks to do so. Right. That's where I got that lesson from.
John Hill: for all of you. The corollary for that is, if your first connection with an investor is asking for money, you've failed.
John Hill: So we're gonna start to. I'm gonna teach you a framework to build relationships with investors of sport and help you out. And, by the way, in about the next 15 min I will give you 3 lead lists that are in your network around investors that you can use right now. So you can follow along with me when I'm doing that.
John Hill: But the quality network actually came from the work that I did at Linkedin. So the University initiative, which was the initiative I was on was a pet project
John Hill: from Reid Hoffman and Jeff Wiener and I. So they kept us close to the vast. And if any of you know San Francisco, especially the Peninsula. Pretty well we were in Mountain View 2029 Sterling Court. So like, think of Google's campus surrounding this one little courtyard, we were the courtyard
John Hill: in the Linkedin offices there, and our little cubicles looked at Reid Hoffman's office, and at the time Reid was writing a book called the St. Startup of You. That book itself. You don't need to read cause I'll give you the the principal outcomes or takeaways on it. But what he was trying to do is look at how?
John Hill: What relationships were most important for you to navigate the job. Search
John Hill: what he found was super profound.
John Hill: I found that 85% of job opportunities for relational networking come out of not who, you know, a First Level connection, but who they know a connection of a connection.
John Hill: He call these people weak ties. I love that that happens with a piece sign. Call these people weak side and tie ties. And I would surmise your business development, your sales, your investment opportunities, your talent opportunities is not about who you know. It's about who they know the connection of a connection. Now, while he was doing that, he also tried to show what were the most effective relationships at a First level
John Hill: who would move messaging to a second level. So how can you build the most effective quality network to optimize connection here? And he found that there were 4 universal affiliations that we all share that create a robust quality network. And this is global.
John Hill: The number one affiliation that, we all have most effective at moving. Messaging from A to B is friends and family.
John Hill: Now the challenge with friends and family is a lot of times. Your network isn't big enough to help you out are lined with what you do. I'm an evangelist. I was a network catalyst before that. I was evangelist before that. My family doesn't even understand my job titles, let alone how to help me out. So I go to a second affiliation, which was university affiliation. So that's actually why they built our initiative was based on some of the data that Reid was seeing on philosophy, of messaging from alumni alumni student alumni Student Alumni back to institution.
John Hill: Third was shared work experience. So those networks super powerful and you can utilize them through the course of your career. Give you an example, having worked at Linkedin, I connect into just about every company in San Francisco, because people I used to work with now work at all those companies. Right? So it's leverageable network that way. Fourth, is anything you do to support yourself professionally.
John Hill: Groups, you attend associations. You're connected to events. You attend.
John Hill: So that was the framework with building quality networks through the data and research that we did with sort of viewing never made that public. And I, whatever I signed on behalf of Linkedin
John Hill: expired 5 years ago. So I can, you know. Speak about it pretty openly. But the cool thing about that is, that becomes the structure for how you build networks and leverage them. Now he actually was able to put numeric value. He never posted this but through the data so friends and family moved messaging from a First Level Second Level 75% of the time. So it's through Linkedin
John Hill: University affiliation was one in 3. What that means is, if I went to a university and there are 3 people who work at Google who went to that university. I reach out to all 3 expectations. Who data is. One of them will respond through cold, outreach
John Hill: shared work. Experience is one in 4, 25. So it's formulaic like, nobody thinks about relationships this way. But it is so. It's like kind of fascinating. When you break that down.
John Hill: What I want to share with all of you is what you just walked into at techsours because it probably still hasn't hit you yet. That credibility lens is one thing like that's a big deal like going through that process to get selected here.
John Hill: But it's the emotional connection that we've been able to stoke through things like this through, you know, posts like Cohen does through the Mds. Through the structure of this program where you help and support each other out. And just to prove out how much you are already tech stars by show of hands. If somebody at Texas were to pick up the phone and give you a call outside of this group anywhere in the world and say, Hey, II wanna learn about you, or wanna you know, talk a little bit about your company, or whatever, by show of hands, how many of you would take that call?
John Hill: Right? And if you don't raise your hand you're going to hell.
John Hill: and I don't have that power. And I'm Irish Catholic. So I'm gonna feel guilty about that for the next 24 h. But the point is all of you raise your hand right, or most of you, I having been in charge of the Techsource network, I believe that founder to founder interaction is completing 2 out of every 3 times about 65, 66% somewhere in there.
John Hill: Which means this is the highest professional affiliate network I've ever seen, and it's just shy of friends and family. That's what you've walked into. It's one of the reasons I've stayed here a decade. I don't think I'll ever see anything like this again, and it's the gift for you to navigate to help expedite the success of your company. So let's watch this in practice. And here's where I'm gonna give you immense value back because I'm gonna show you how you can both find the data you need to help build out your company
John Hill: and how you can optimize the messaging to mobilize your First level connections to get into Second Level connections. So I'm gonna start by looking at my universal people, my first and second level connections. And you can all follow along with what I'm doing. It's not gonna bother me at all. And so now I can see 1.7 million people that I personally can reach and I can see who relates to each one of those people, and just like as a side, he doesn't normally come up here.
John Hill: Stephen Darby created our first logo for Texas. It was like a mountain with like a star on top. I don't think most people know that, but he's an awesome human anyway. If I wanted to start the first lead list for investors. I'm gonna come down here to industry.
John Hill: So industry is the taxonomy is based on what are called nax codes, or na cis codes, or whatever they're old sic codes. Their government designation by industry utilized by tax for tax purposes globally. So everybody country in the world uses this definition of industry. And and they're like umbrellas. So they're imperfect. But they're perfect, for one thing, for all of you. One of the industry codes that is here is venture capital.
John Hill: So now I can come in to select all the people who are First or Second Level connections that are in venture capital or private equity. And I can see 84,000 people.
John Hill: Now, this is where I need your help in this presentation. We're gonna go into chat in a second. I am not gonna go through 84,000 people. I don't think any of you are gonna do the same thing
John Hill: so now I wanna start to match the thesis of the investors so like the words that we have in commonality. So those people who are most likely to be interested in companies like me. So if a couple of you can in chat, tell me what your companies are doing, I, or what verticals they're associated with. It, would be super helpful. So human resources, Fintech, health tech underwriting. Alright, I've done most of these in the past. Small business.
John Hill: Valerie. I've got some really cool stuff for you later. Sustainable sustainable finance. That's an interesting one. Let's go back to that.
John Hill: Okay, Matt, you I am gonna utilize you with sustainable finance. Right? So finance, we can essentially say Fintech might be the category right with sustainability. Sound good. So one of the cool things about how Linkedin set up their search capability. They actually allow you to search these sets as you refine them.
John Hill: So I this is actually a bullying search stolen from Google. Let's me do. And an or but if I just type words in, it's a reductive search, so it'll bring the total amount of people down.
John Hill: So if I start with looking at Fintech, what it's actually doing is run a site profile for anybody who's typed the word Fintech into their profile. They didn't select this. There's no dropdown. They've actually written this word, which means they're more likely to be associated with Fintech because they've written it. It means something to them. Right? So now I have 2,100 people who've written the word Fintech at a first or second level in venture. Now again, reductive search. So I can come up here, and you know, let's look at
John Hill: sustainability. So anybody who has written the words Fintech and sustainability on their profile, and I'm down to 343 right? And I can see the relationships I have in common. So where are you building this company in?
John Hill: Sorry in California Bay area? San Francisco? Alright. So
John Hill: that's almost a cheat code. But I can come down here, and I can look at everybody in the Bay Area
John Hill: at a first or second level that's in venture that has Fintech and sustainability on their profile, and how I relate to each one of them so like, if I go down this list Jack, was actually a tech Service company. My sister actually invested in his company cause she went to Dartmouth with him back in the day she had that credibility lens through University I and II see he connects into Nissard.
John Hill: I could utilize Jag to get in, or here Cody Sims, who used to be an Md for tech stars is now doing some really amazing work around climate technology and investment and in the entrepreneurial space got a great podcast to listen to. I could connect from Cody to our PIN. And I probably utilize Cody, directly for this is how I would walk through this. So
John Hill: so with Cody, hey? You know, it's been a couple of months since we talked last, but we need to reconnect love, to have conversation. Whenever you want anything I can do to help you. Don't hesitate, my friend. With Rpen in an affordable email. I would say something like, Hey, my name is John Hill. I'm building this company that's associated with Fintech and sustainability. Would really love to talk to you because, based on your profile, I think you could give us some advice that would be helpful.
John Hill: Now there's an old adage in Silicon Valley in San Francisco that if you want advice, has for money. If you want money asked for advice, that's what we're leaning into. right. And so we're asking him for advice on a couple of different things based on read of content. Or, you know, like what communities he's associated with, or what's on his Linkedin profile. Whatever research I do through Google or any other social whatever. I can ask him a couple of things about my builds a company now,
John Hill: if he ends up getting on the phone with me, or we have face to face meeting, and he gives me some advice. He's giving a piece of his emotion to me. What that means is he now is, emotionally invested in what I'm doing. So I'm beyond just transaction.
John Hill: If every interaction I have with him I asked another piece of advice. I start to path into that fourth reason that people mentor qualified deal flow, cause he gets to know the person behind the product and service, and I'm gauging that I'm aligned with what he does through things like search terms with Fintech and sustainability. So I'm like trying to match my company to his thesis. Now.
John Hill: when I work with startups, I've sat down with 2,000 of you in the Texas Texas world, one on one. So that thing I offered you earlier. I do all the time.
John Hill: And II
John Hill: always find it interesting, like at the early stage level. You worry about what you have to give to other companies, and the thing that you have. And there's a great book that talks about the psychology about this by Adam Grant, and that is a book I would buy, called, Give and Take. If you haven't read, it is phenomenal.
John Hill: But I
John Hill: you have insights into what the world is gonna look like, and it goes back to the second reason. People mentor insights into technological trends.
John Hill: What I would do in this with our pan and say, hey? I would love to share with you some of what we've learned to date. I think it might be interesting for you, as you navigate investing into companies who are related to Fintech and sustainability. You are more nimble than corporates. You are more insightful, and probably have more knowledge about where the category you're in is going for investors, like.
John Hill: you know, like you're ahead of Vc. At this point your tip of the sphere of where things are trending.
John Hill: use that knowledge as leverage to connect into these relationships and even out the give and take, so that you can continue to stay in conversation with people like Arpen, because you're giving him as much as you're taking from him. So this is one way that we can do this. I'm gonna go back into my network. And we're gonna take this back into connections. We'll go reset all the filters Linkedin's clunky sometimes. So it's hard to reset the search there.
John Hill: But the problem with this industry code and venture capital and private equity is, it is an umbrella, and it's imperfect.
John Hill: So I can work at Amazon. I can work at Meta. I'm in the category of information technology, but I can still invest in companies.
John Hill: so I can use search terms to define people who don't fit in that original search that I did. So. This is the second lead list I'm giving you with investors, and so I can look at all the people
John Hill: who are angel investors, or have written the words Angel investor on their profile or angel investing or investing. Now, again bullying search. So I'm putting in quotes is actually taking the whole phrase off people's profile. So these 2 words are together.
John Hill: So, angel investor people have written it on their profile. When I do a search for that I'm actually gonna take this out to the universe.
John Hill: I can see that there are 64,000 people who have written the words Angel Investor on the profile, on on Linkedin. Now.
John Hill: I'm gonna take it back into network. And look at how many I connect to. And it's about half 34,000. Yeah, go ahead.
John Hill: How do you figure out if someone in this list is connected to textiles or went through the program. Just case by case. Researcher, yeah. So we'll get into the tech service piece in just a second. That follows immediately after this. And I'll show you how you can do it, and I'll show you how you should self identify on texts. So give me 1 s. It's almost there. But I
John Hill: say, let's pick another one night. Life hospitality! That's interesting. Winetk.
John Hill: is it really called winech? Chrissy? That's awesome.
John Hill: Is that like really a category.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: I've never heard that, and we're gonna try it. So so yes, there is a category winetech but II did retail tech just so that you kinda know the industry that we're trying to address it.
John Hill: So what I love about Winetk one cause I've never heard anybody use that term before. So like, that's surprising for me. Having done this so many times. But second, I it's very esoteric thing, right? So I can find the specific people
John Hill: that have interests and people like me like, if I do winet as a search, they've written this as a combination. So whoever pops up here's the one person so talk to Kevin. He's a wine nerd, right? So we're done with wine tech, but that's so awesome. But you know, like, if you were looking at wine as a search term, it's gonna broaden this out
John Hill: and then I might look at words like retail. So it's taking angel, investor, wine and retail angel investor as a grouping. And it's a reductive search. So now, all of a sudden, I get a larger swath of people 134. Chrissie, I'm gonna assume you're probably in the Bay Area. But if you're not let me know.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: Yes, and and in fact, I split my time. Between San Francisco Bay Area and Davis, which is also
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: the universe is well renowned for wine. So Ni nicely placed perfect. Well, watch what we can do here.
John Hill: So I can take this into
John Hill: San Francisco and the Metropolitan Bay Area is gonna encompass almost up to Davis. So this is the population center up there. So when I do that, I can look at the subset here. But I'm gonna actually play off what you just said with Uc. Davis. I'm gonna see if I can pee back all these things together
John Hill: and look at anybody who is associated with Uc. Davis
John Hill: and wine
John Hill: person. So nobody on that. So I'm gonna take the university out. But you end up with 9 people related to wine and retail angel investors that have a profile on Linkedin. And again I can see how I relate to each one of these people
John Hill: and enable them to introduce me and connect in. And so like, just as an aside, I can see a lot of these people are tech source people I'm connected to, which I know is not as visible to you. So this goes slowly on a pack to the question about tech stars you're about to get into. But for you, Chrissy, like Miha
John Hill: was in the first program at Texas. He worked as a principal at Madrona ventures. He was at aws for a while. So he's connected in a bunch of different places that could help us out Eli is at in Israel.
John Hill: and is one of our also our mentors. For Texas. Gives us advice all the time about how we can navigate what respective networks are associated with Craig is what I like to call like a friendly he actually runs a conference up in Calgary called an investors.
John Hill: I've known of him forever. If you wanna connect into kind of that region of Canada, he is probably the best human to do it. So like I can see how I can connect into those people that way. But to your point, or to whoever asked that question, Liliana? How do you navigate the tech network through all of this most effectively. And so we're gonna go back into that.
John Hill: And I'm gonna go back into search wood filters when I'm gonna come off camera for a little bit and just to kind of share how, if I were all of you
John Hill: I would build my network most effectively.
John Hill: So if I'm sitting in your seats right now, if I'm taking a startup through techsours, there are 4 ways they would try to optimize, build of network to support what I'm doing.
John Hill: The first thing that you should all do is cross-connect with each other.
John Hill: And you know, like II know intuitively, you probably already started to do that, but, like you should really try to support and engage with each other through your respective networks. And this should be tree of trust for you now. And 10 years from now, like, take all the people work at techstars out of the equation. Take the mentors and investors that we're gonna bring in. This group of people should be tree of trust right? And you should not worry about signal is super hard build in a company. You all know that
John Hill: right? This is the group to tell you. Tell, hey? I'm having trouble with this. This isn't working. I don't know what to do here, or to optimize to leverage each other's networks to trust each other right through this process. You'll trust each other even more and more and more as you go right. But all of you should cross, connect with each other. That's the number. One thing that I would do now by show of hands. How many of you are? Not from the Bay area.
John Hill: Okay? So everywhere you go, there are tech stars, communities. There are tech stars, people, every one of your markets. Every city, every country. There are tech stars. People connect with those people by geography. So those are what I call the coffee meetings or the team meetings or wine meetings like those are the people you get together and commiserate about what it's like to build a company. They understand the textiles credibility lens. So our world.
John Hill: But they also understand what it's like to build a company. And it's better if they're actually not even associated with your vertical because you don't have to worry about any of that and again, a great group to not have to concern yourself with signal.
John Hill: The third is vertical. So all of you are in a vertical, and I saw that line of verticals pop up when you were typing that information into chat
John Hill: any vertical that you're in. We have companies we've invested in that are further along than you. Those are great people to talk to about pitfalls to avoid accelerants that are out there, just like general insights on how to navigate the industries or categories that you're in. Look for those people, and then last, like you're all fallible
John Hill: and like. I don't mean that in a negative way. You're imperfect. You have gaps in what you understand and build a company.
John Hill: The beautiful thing is, we have these thought leaders and subject matter experts in every single category that you need. So whether it's marketing or Hr. Go to market whatever we have. Somebody who can fill that bucket for you find the thought leaders and subject matter experts to help you fill the gaps.
John Hill: So that's how I would build my network. Now, we can actually look this in play. So first person like raise their hand on the screen. I'll use you as an example area. Alright. So mark I'll have you pop off mute, and let's like actually walk through. How I would build it if I were you.
John Hill: and look at it through search on Linkedin. So Mark, where are you located right now? Mark is over there. I'm gonna I'm the CEO. Okay, San Francisco. So San Francisco, again, is almost like cheat code. Like, you're playing video games. You win so like, let's start with sharing screen, and we'll go through and we'll start with Texters at all, and then we're gonna take it down to San Francisco.
John Hill: So share my screen again, pop into this presentation.
John Hill: Okay? So I'm gonna start with the search term text service. And so that conversation earlier, about like, how do we identify people who have tech service
John Hill: perfect. So there are 32,500 people who have written the word text service on their profile.
John Hill: 32,500
John Hill: I and I can see that on the back end, on the license sales. Navigator.
John Hill: so those people are primarily founders, mentors, Curtin and former texts. Our staff and community leaders like they make up the bulk of those people. So they're all friendly. Now, there's a slice of life on search on this that is broken for that total.
John Hill: I know that total is 32,500, cause I can see it, but when I do this search. It will come up at 22,000 21,000 15,000 or 13,000. I've tried to get the team on search to fix this at Linkedin, and they won't.
John Hill: I and I still know them, and they're friendly, but I can't get them to fix it. So let's see what it is today. So for all of you. Right, Texas, somewhere on your profile. It does not matter where. Just write it and just make sure you spell it correctly.
John Hill: And that way you become, I identifiable for everybody else. So when I do this search today, the number is 22,000. Yesterday was 21,000,
John Hill: all 32,500 are here as I bring down search. They all show up.
John Hill: for whatever reason this slice of life doesn't work, and I don't. I can't figure it out.
John Hill: but I can take it a step further. So if you're you're still unmuted cool. Tell me what your company does
Mark Kirzhner: so we help with musicians performing musicians make more money from their gigs.
John Hill: Oh, that's cool. If you follow me on social at all, you'll see my wife and I travel to music venues pretty much every weekend, and we'll travel all over the world Forum, so big fan.
John Hill: So let's do this we will look for the search term music right?
John Hill: Alright. So we have texters and music. So we have your vertical we have your affiliation through tech service. So 911 people come up on that, and then I want to locate it to a market that I'm in
John Hill: so backyard, right? So Bay area.
John Hill: So are there any things that you're struggling with with build? A company sure go to market is difficult. Yeah. And it seems to be a common theme for people. So I'm gonna look for anybody who's written the term. Gtm. Go to market off their profile right? Haven't selected it written the term.
John Hill: And all of a sudden I'm down to 17 people
John Hill: who are in San Francisco associated with Texas our primary affiliation in the vertical of music. That have profile, Linkedin. And I can see how I relate to each one of them if I wanna bring it down to that level
John Hill: right. And so I can personalize network to get into those people or see how penetrative my network is. And actually that vertical, I'm I usually am much deeper in connections within Texas. I'm not as much for this, which is interesting, but I see people like, you know, head of growth marketing for Amazon music.
John Hill: Beth is a pretty good person to connect into right, and I can see she's got a gap of cross connections with me. So you know, like avi, all is former. Techs. Maya's former techs as a former found, or as a current founder of techs, Hugh techs Itamar. We worked at Linkedin together dyer actually started
John Hill: web summit
John Hill: it was one of the founders of Web Summit back in the day II which we just had him speak in an event in San Francisco, 4 or 5 months ago. Stephanie Aggressa is a good friend who's in marketing who does a lot of the motion around the speakers who come to south by
John Hill: another good person. Meg works at Cal Berkeley as this Tenney. So like you can see, I can utilize. Oh, my God, Jamie Turner, alright! I'm gonna give you guys a little story here.
John Hill: so we'll go off you for just a second. I'm gonna go off screen. So have any of you ever written a book before? This is completely outside of this talk. So this is just curiosity.
John Hill: Nobody's written a book. Alright. So it's like literally the worst experience in human history.
John Hill: So II while I was at Linkedin was asked to write a book, and I was on the road 220 days a year. So married kids right? And then they're like, Hey, go on the road, nonstop. And, by the way, now, in your spare time write a book. So I'm like, all right, I'll write a book, and I did it in about 6 months, if you know how long it usually takes to write a book
John Hill: that is lightning speed for 3 months I worked with a ghost writer, which is Jamie Turner, who popped up there, and I haven't talked to him in a while. But we both poured our hearts into this book. And at the last minute. Jeff Weiner, who I respect.
John Hill: President of Linkedin. Awesome human being, said, you know what we should only have the the executive leadership team, writing books, nobody else in any other areas. I was already listed in the Amazon bookstore. They were already set to go to print.
John Hill: I have poured my life into that book. I still have all 14 chapters on my laptop.
John Hill: Nobody has ever seen it. I have the picture of it being in Amazon. And so I'll probably never be an author again because of that experience. But II haven't seen that in a while, so I haven't seen Jamie. I don't even know why I just bought that up to you. I think it was just Arctic. So thank you for that anyway.
John Hill: pretty helpful where you can see how you can get back down to all of these people. That could support and help you out. Now I I'm gonna go into the thirdly list that II wanted to talk about, which was
John Hill: was drive from university. So somebody put the university you went to in chat. Any university in the world.
John Hill: Usc. Was quick.
John Hill: Michigan state. Nelson, you get me go green. That's awesome. I so I'm a Michigan state grad like that's so cool. So let's go back to that. Where are you at, Bud?
John Hill: All right, Nelson. Come off mute for a second
Nelson Mitchell: you got it.
Lilliana Robinson: That's just proof, John, that that's one of the biggest affinity.
John Hill: Yeah, like I am super stoked now. So as like a a hack for you. I'm an Eir at Michigan State. So, as I show you this, leverage me in some way, shape or form, to help you out, I was actually part of the group that started the entrepreneurial program at Michigan State.
John Hill: So yeah, there's a and I used to be the spokesperson for Msu. Athletics for football and basketball, and so II was the Ra. Ra. Guy as well. But alright, Nelson, do you know all the people who are Vc.
John Hill: That went to Michigan State University.
John Hill: No, no clue. Watch this. This does. So I'm gonna type in Michigan State University. Obviously, all of you can follow along and use your own universities. What you're looking for is school.
John Hill: If you went to a Uk university for whatever reason they're calling it research services. So like, that's what you'll select.
John Hill: But if you click on this, what you're looking for are what are called university pages, so it should look like this, and it should have this type of alumni on it. So this is one of the products we built on the team I was on. We map long career data to university attendance and created unique identifiers for every university in the world with this. What's really cool is Google, actually reverse indexed our
John Hill: unique identifier for university for their search. So like, they used us, even though we use them for bullying searches, super awesome. But before we built these pages I was speaking at universities on behalf of Linkedin trying to figure out what customer needs were so like bringing insight back into the product team
John Hill: and I, our developers, used to follow me around on the talks. And while they were
John Hill: building what I'm about to show you. They affectionately named it John Hill in a box. So what I'm about to show you is my baby. It's called the alumni tool shows all alumni by a university and, by the way, this been around for 12 years by where they work, where they live, what they do, what they're skilled at, what they're studying and how you're connected to them. So remember, university affiliation is the most powerful affiliation
John Hill: by what we developed outside of friends and family. So this is a powerful one, no matter what, and just to prove it out for my friends who are outside the United States like us Canada, Uk.
John Hill: especially Americans. You can always tell us when we're traveling around the world, cause we wear the letters of our universities on our sweatshirts right? We stick out no, tomorrow. Rest of world education is more transactional, but the reality is, if I went to Nca in Fontainebleau, France, and did a funding run in San Francisco and ran into somebody else who went to. Invariably we would have a conversation brings the barrier down. So that's like what we're playing off of here. And so I wanna be able to identify all the people who can help me out.
John Hill: And so, Nelson, one of the things I can do. And this is based on endorsements, lightweight recommendations. Community are saying, these people are associated venture capital. I can also do a search for angel investor. Things like that. Right? So I'll send with that powerful affiliation, one in 3 responsive. I can see 772 alumni that are in venture. Capital, Nelson, where are you building your company? App
Nelson Mitchell: San Francisco?
John Hill: I think it's a commonality.
John Hill: so I can now look at all the people in the Bay Area. Nelson, what are you doing? What's your company?
Nelson Mitchell: It's a medical bill management to help people pay and error check their medical bills.
John Hill: Alright. So that's an interesting one. So Billing.
John Hill: what would payments? Billing, yeah, payment payments. That's what I was looking for. So now I can search this set for anybody who's written the term payments on their profile
John Hill: here. The the search is a little bit broken, because there's actually 4, not 3. But here are the 4 people who are in venture capital that have payments on their profile that went to Michigan State University, and how I relate to each one of them right? And again, credibility lenses like when I look at vista
John Hill: ana runs a fund supporting female founders in La and former Md. For tech stars. The fact that they're connected tells me like I need to talk to Krista anish again, David Mendez, former
John Hill: managing director for our program in the Netherlands, and would be a good person to mobilize, to connect in. So like I can see and qualify some of the relationships based on who I know with tech services, credibility lens and then tie into university. And again, for people show up so expectation through data, even cold outreach is one of these people will respond now for all of you.
John Hill: How many like and just slow, stop for a second.
John Hill: Everybody on this call. If you go back to like, I'll stop sharing just to see you all again.
John Hill: If a student from your university were to pick up the phone and give you a call, and say, Hey, I want to learn a little bit more about your entrepreneurial journey, or what it's been like to be at extras, or whatever. How many of you would take that call
John Hill: right? And it's going to be a high portion of you, and probably not everybody, but and a lot.
John Hill: And again, that's what you're tapping into for yourself now by show of hands. How many of you have? 2, 3, 4 universities associated with your company right now.
John Hill: right?
John Hill: Think about those lead lists that you're gonna be creating through this lens. And, by the way, in 15 min, through taxonomy, through word search and through university affiliation. I give you lead lists that you can utilize tactically on your own. Like, literally, I can drop the mic phone and walk off right now. Good luck, right. But I'm gonna take you further down the rabbit hole and we're gonna go into the next thing. Which is talent.
John Hill: So talent is a fascinating thing for me. So I've worked at Linkedin and Michigan State University, and I one in career services and Linkedin, obviously. The number one representation of professional development information in the world your personal, I professional identity of record.
John Hill: So I love, the talent, space, and the pattern matching that I've been able to do through the conversations I've had with our founders. Pretty pretty interesting in this space. So this isn't like
John Hill: doesn't pass. Pass. Phd. Methodology. But I think it will resonate with most of you. Your first 10 hires 10 to 15 hires generally come out of network.
John Hill: So you hire people, you know, or people they know First and Second Level connections. And it's amazing how that dovetails with what Reid was looking at. Through. You know, weak ties first Level. The week ties
John Hill: At that point you end up hiring somebody in Hr. They broaden out the funnel, and you start to attract talent from everywhere. But early on you attract talent through network.
John Hill: I if that's the case, I want to turn you into headhunters. So I wanna help you identify the talent that's in your network actively, cause you're already doing it passively.
John Hill: Now,
John Hill: pre-covid about 90% of our companies
John Hill: at the Early level recruited out of network First and Second Level and in their backyard. So if I were building my company in San Francisco.
John Hill: I recruited in San Francisco early and then
John Hill: broaden out the funnel at some point, and about 10% of the companies were intentionally distributed. You just went for the best talent all over the world, and I can do both. And I'm gonna do both for you in a second
John Hill: post Covid that's turned to about 50 50 and actually pretty much everybody who's still recruiting their backyard is now also looking for the best talent everywhere, so like the models shipped it a little bit. But I'm gonna show you how I can use some of these tools. To help me out. So is anybody hiring a position right now.
John Hill: Nelson, I already use you. I got. Is there somebody else who's hiring?
John Hill: Alright? Antonio! Wait! Wait! Who just popped up.
John Hill: Oh, Kevin. all right. Kevin did raise the hand in the etiquette way on! Zoom. So, Kevin, go for it. What are you doing? Sure? Yup! So we're kind of in the process right now for looking for a graphic designer.
John Hill: Okay, where are you based
Kevin: New York?
John Hill: And then, what does your company do?
John Hill: We are hospitality technology. We identify customers through payments, payments. So hospitality
John Hill: I and graphic design. New York City. Right? So we use those as the play out restaurants. Alright. So you've given me a whole host of things to work off of that alright. So let me share my screen. I'll jump back in, and we'll actually run through this for you.
John Hill: And stay off or stay
John Hill: unmuted, so that I can ask you questions as we go along. So so first of all, I like the filtering for
John Hill: for universities on this, but I can also use general search. So let's start with the University side. So I might look at like Cornell, which is known for hospitality business. Or I might look at schools like New York
John Hill: a Nyu Columbia like that are right in the Sunnys, like right in my market right? And I can go through all of these very quickly
John Hill: to see all the people in my network that represent what I'm looking for. So I can go to the alumni tool, and I'm looking in my backyard, and you can do this for all your respective cities. I want those people who are in New York City right, the easiest ones to go after.
John Hill: And then I want those people who are skilled at graphic design.
John Hill: 64, 6, 6,464. Alright. So you're working in hospitality.
John Hill: See me curious.
John Hill: Oh, that's broken. Alright! Quick check!
John Hill: We can see if anybody is there a major of hospitality at Nyu?
John Hill: Any idea?
John Hill: That's you, Kevin? Any idea?
Kevin: Yeah, I'm not sure. Actually.
John Hill: there is not Yup, and just showing that way. So we're gonna we're gonna play. Because I actually am fascinated to see how this would work with Cornell.
John Hill: So I'm gonna use Cornell and take it into New York, and they do have hospitality.
John Hill: So when I come here.
John Hill: there's a reason I do to doing this because you layered in restaurants. It makes it even more interesting because I can get to a specific group of people. So 58,000. And
John Hill: I want those people who studied hospitality. Okay, so yep. Hotel management. I wonder if hospitality itself. The reason that something's wrong with their search right now. So this isn't me.
John Hill: but I can trick it to get to what I want. So I'm looking for, Major. There we go.
John Hill: So hospitality does pop up right is one of the things. And I'm gonna take hospitality out of here. And I'm gonna look at all those people who went to Cornell that are New York City in hospitality that are also scaled at graphic Design
John Hill: 15. And I want anybody who has typed the word restaurant on their profile.
John Hill: 7. And I want all those people
John Hill: who are direct or indirect connection. Here are the 2 people who fit that
John Hill: right? So if I'm looking for network. I wanna identify through a series of words the talent that I'm looking for here. And right, the most like, think about what we just did like, I just took a billion people down to these 2 people that I have connection to now. Better yet I see it across Connector Felix helps run the entrepreneurial programming at Cornell. I'm actually speaking at Cornell Tech in New York City tomorrow.
John Hill: I at their
John Hill: program that so I'll be driving down to hang out, and Felix will be there so like I'll literally tell him that I just did this, and he popped up so love to hear that.
John Hill: But what this tells me, as they're entrepreneurial cause. They're connected to Felix. They're in. They have restaurants connected to them. They're in graphic design. They graduate from hospitality business, and they live in New York right? So if I reach out to Eden, or if I reach out to Jamie and say I do it through Felix or Jenny, who's former tech service things like that? Nicole, who's former Linkedin like? If I reach out to any of these people?
John Hill: there are 3 things they can do.
John Hill: and that outreach number one. I'm not interested in a job with you, and that's probably the most likely no harm. We just did this in 10 s.
John Hill: right? And I can do all these searches. By the way, on that same thing where I did angel, investor and winetk and stuff like that. Second, I am interested. You just qualify to lead through network. You're hiring like this, anyway. You might as well be proactive to find the talent you're looking for and go through their resumes really quickly on here, and number 3 not interested. But I'll share with my network.
John Hill: Who are they? Networks with other graphic designers who appreciate hospitality in New York City? Right? So it opens up you to that network. Now, you can imagine how you can use this for engineers or sales, or whatever other categories you're looking for. And again we took Cornell, which is outside of New York
John Hill: and brought it in. So this is, you know, the approach of looking at it intentionally distributed, and we could take New York out of the equation, and you could see all the people who fit that from Cornell, saying, This is the best school to go after, and I can see the relationships I have with each one of those people as well, so I can broaden out the lens and get go for the best talent anywhere. So you could target schools like mit for engineering or Stanford, or you could look at lbs. Or Ncr for business schools, or whatever right
John Hill: this allows you to head hunt for yourself. Now, third thing I want to go into is customer acquisition.
John Hill: So come off screen again, for all of you name a company that you're trying to sell into
John Hill: any company
Lilliana Robinson: just unmute
John Hill: lift like ridesharelift. Is that what we're looking for?
David Akinyemi: Yeah, lift employees trying to sell to lift employees? Alright. So you're trying to reach the people who are actually driving lifts.
John Hill: N, not driving them. There are like software engineers or people. Oh, I got you. Okay, cool. Alright, this is a cool one, all right. So let's do lift toast. I actually know. Some of the founders, Kevin. Wherever you were.
John Hill: Shoot me a note. After this I'll I'll make a connection. But I let's go. Let's do lift as part of this. So I'm a big fan of the company information that's available on Linkedin. Just as an aside, how many of you have company pages on Linkedin?
John Hill: Alright. A little kind of gift for you. You can actualize people who follow you. And they generally fall into 4 buckets. Number one. They are friends and family
John Hill: the. You can move them to the side. They're awesome, but not for what I'm about to talk about. Number 2. There are people who wanna use your product and service. So people are literally raising their hand to utilize you. If you're not actualizing that, you know, you're missing out on an opportunity. Third, there, people wanna work at your company. So it's potential talent acquisition for the people who wanna mentor invest in you up to about 2,000 followers. You can kinda keep track of that and try to actualize, and then it gets a little bit more unwieldy and difficult, but just a little trick
John Hill: so share my screen again. Jump back in. We'll look at lift as a company page. So company pages similar to university pages. Map the employees of an organization or a company.
John Hill: so there's like super good information and insights here. And who was lyft? By the way, I'm sorry I missed that.
John Hill: This is David, David, David. How are you doing, Bud? Alright. So one of the things that I would do early on with this David. Lift his paid Linkedin for this life button most small met sized businesses I know some of you are selling in the Smb's aren't going to have this but if they do have this button, if I go down here, it's a series of testimonials and videos about what it's like to work at lift.
John Hill: What lift will use here are their values. They'll use the words that are important that separate them from working at like, say, Uber right?
John Hill: Why, that is important to you is they're telling you how to speak their language. You can use these words back at them at pitch, a product and service. So they're telling you how to be more effective at pitching them, which is pretty cool. Now
John Hill: I if II come back into home.
John Hill: If it's a small, if the like button isn't here, I can get that same kind of information off the top end of job descriptions so cool there.
John Hill: For those in Smb's, it's sometimes hard to pattern match on sales. So if you sell into one, it's hard to see 20 other companies that are similar to that. Linkedin actually does you a solid over here? It looks at people also viewed pages. Based on pattern matching. So you can see the 20 companies
John Hill: that are most similar to Lyft for all of you, 20 companies most similar to the company you sold into. This is also good to see how you're getting pattern match within the system. Who's similar to you in the space. Now, the thing I really wanna show you and David, explain who you would be selling into again for me.
David Akinyemi: And so where B to C director consumer. And so we're trying to sell this product to the people who work that lift. And
David Akinyemi: what we're building is protection for equity compensation. So almost like insurance for their stock packages.
John Hill: Alright. So you're trying to reach people who are in Hr. Or finance.
John Hill: who would? Who would be so like? It's for the employees, for, like Rsus or options and stuff like that. Right? Exactly. Alright. So let's we're gonna go into this search, which is John Hill on a box. It's now on every company page, so I can see every employee who works at lift by where they live, where they study what they do with their skill, that and how you're connected to them. So on skills
John Hill: I see who shows up.
John Hill: No, Randy may or may not be the right person. I can't tell on this. See.
John Hill: let's play around with this. Give me some terms of who you would target to sell into that, David. Help me out a little bit here. Equity essentially, search here.
John Hill: So we're gonna search the whole set and see who we come up with. And that person would fall. Probably. So here, I mean, this is that compensation manager. Right? So Ashley connects me to her. But so II definitely have a connection and connection. Oh, here's another one director of Equity compensation.
John Hill: So 2 people here that pop up right away.
John Hill: And they probably are the right people get down
John Hill: 60. What are the search terms. So I wonder if they're in operations?
John Hill: They are not in operations.
John Hill: So Alicia Lamont are in finance.
John Hill: There we go. So they're actually in the finance department. Right? So the what I why, I did that David, is I'm trying to reverse Engineer
John Hill: who these decision makers are in the company with search terms so that I can apply this to every company. I search from this point forward, so I can always find the right people based on how they show up in this search. So like, obviously, I can mobilize these people to connect into. And
John Hill: probably what I would do is go. I definitely would do, go into her profile or his profile, and then start to read down to see affiliation and connection. So she's been doing this kind of administrative. The stock administration for a while connected with Twitter. I've got a ton of friends that were at Twitter, probably during this timeframe that I could potentially reach out to and have conversation with went to Oregon. I have any associations with that. Utilize that same with Santa Clara.
John Hill: I can look at, you know is this somebody who plays off affiliation? So you know, she joined the University of Oregon
John Hill: University group. So she's one of those people would raise her hand to help out students. Which means she's a potential friendly to engage with. So like I can start to get some insights into who she is out of this now, before I reached out to Alicia, or before I reached out to Lamont, I or you know.
John Hill: did that portable email to my friends. I'd actually try to do some due diligence about these people. So equity and compensation were 2 of the search terms. Here here are all 24,000 people who work and left based on those.
John Hill: So I want to play off of David. Where'd you go to school.
John Hill: or a small school in Maine. Bates College. Oh, I love Bates, that's awesome. Another one of the little ivies totally know it.
John Hill: Colby Boden, like all the small schools up there so I can look at all the people who used to work at Lyft now with Bates it's a small footprint, so there may not be anybody here. But let's take a look.
John Hill: What I would do if I were you is, look for anybody who went to baits that used to work at Lyft.
John Hill: and there are actually 4.
John Hill: Very quickly. I can go down and see if any of them are compensation. None of them are so I could reach out to any of these people and say, Hey, listen! I'm trying to sell into left. I'm trying to get an understanding of what it's like to navigate that company.
John Hill: They're now affiliated with me more than they are with Lyft because of Bates, and they will likely tell me the right people to connect to the right approach, how to sell into it. Now, Bates, probably not the most effective one for you on this one cause. It's a small result. So let's look at connections and see if there are anybody in First and Second Level connections that used to work there. And for me, I get about a thousand, and then I can use search terms like compensation.
John Hill: And I can navigate network to connect into these people. And so like Stacy, used to be director of compensation of benefits, and lifts
John Hill: and lyft is now total rewards at Coinbase. She used to work with. She knows Robbie Kwak.
Robbie was one of the people who hired me at Linkedin. Robbie also was the Vp. Of Hr. For slack
John Hill: I and I owns a a Korean restaurant in San Francisco. I barbecued at his house. I know his family. We used to play basketball at 7 Am. In the morning before we worked at Linkedin. If I were to ask him to connect me with Stacey, it can almost guarantee he would, through that relationship, and knowing how Robby brokers relationship. Stacy would likely also give me the due diligence about how to navigate and connect into lyft, and is a potential
John Hill: additional sale into something like coinbase.
John Hill: All right, Vincent, I saw you have your hand up. What's up?
Vincent Lucero: Yes, so as you're going through this, and you mentioned again the university connection. I
Vincent Lucero: was like Abra a remote student. So I lived at home with my parents when I went to college, so I didn't like have that that type affiliation. However, what I'm realizing is that
Vincent Lucero: a lot of people that do have that kind ofulation is because it was like their local community. And really what the association here is. Family you have a massive amount of trust with. And then people that went to the same university likely grew up in that region, and that's you have that same commonality. So is it fair to say that, like the gradient that you should be looking at is like the amount of trust that you have, and that smears into probability of them connecting you to somebody else.
John Hill: Yeah, II mean, II think, like what one of the reasons I put it into buckets is, it's much easier to kind of structure how you approach through it. And honestly, you just hit into something that I generally don't talk about, but I also think is a strong affiliation
John Hill: which is geography. So like, if you didn't have the education you could play off geography, and and how that works for like when it you talk about main
John Hill: so, David, like any mainers that are hanging out in San Francisco. They feel a sense of community cause. They realize how far away they are from their home state to operate in the hyper economic zone like San Francisco. Those are great people to connect into so like spot on Vincent, like the University, one is just an easy one to structure, and I know how powerful it is, but like you can play off other affiliations. And, by the way, other associations. So so let me go into last 3 things.
John Hill: and then I'll wrap. I think we've got about 7 min, so I'll cover this pretty quickly. Who's read your profile if you pitch product and service to somebody, and they look at your profile after you pitch product and service they're interested. They wouldn't look otherwise if you pitch product and service to somebody and somebody else in the company who was not in the meeting, looks at your profile. They're talking about you really good, spectacularly bad, I have no idea. But at least it's an input, right? You can know that
John Hill: I'm Linkedin has become an incredible marketing platform.
John Hill: and for all of you your individual profiles are rich, media enabled. I would put investment deck light on there. I would put videos about what you're doing on there and then all your employees should do the same thing, so that anybody who comes into any of the people associated with your company can see some marketing materials. On your profile. That's one thing. You're all being asked to be content, producers as well. To develop a brand around yourself and your company. And when I built my company 97. That didn't exist.
John Hill: A couple of tricks for you just to make it easier because most of you are not content. People is the average person can only remember 4 things about you. And so if you follow me on social, you'll see. I only post about 4 really specific categories. Linkedin techsr's
John Hill: Michigan State and Boston, and then I can go deep in each one of those so like Linkedin, I can get into networking with Texas I can get into entrepreneurship, but but I only focus on those 4 categories. So for all of you try to pick what those important things are.
John Hill: and utilize that as the content you support. The second thing is, there's a philosophy called Co Create, once published everywhere, and the idea is that you take the quintessential germ of what you're trying to communicate, and then just shift it a little bit for every medium that you're speaking, and unfortunately, like
John Hill: they, methods of communication are definitely like fragmented right now. But if I'm speaking on Linkedin, it's where business takes place. If I'm speaking on Instagram Snapchat Tiktok. Right? It's a steady stream of information that people are interested in right now, if I'm on Facebook, it's the bar, right? So the communications a little bit differently, but I can take that one piece and not have to recreate the wheel again and again and again.
John Hill: Linkedin actually does a good job, a much better job at helping you influence through content. So they're doing things like video podcasts and stuff like that through the creator tool. But they're actually tracking your content through views. And it's allowing you to see. Are you good at the content you're putting out? Or could you be more effective? And it's doing it based on who's responding to content.
John Hill: So if I go into here and look at one of the posts that I just made
John Hill: if I scroll down. And I view analytics. So 3,500 people have engaged with this when I come down to company size, I can actually look at job titles to see if the right people are responding. I speak to founders co-founders all the time. If I'm not reaching co-founders and founders, that's an issue with my content.
John Hill: Right? And so I can. A B test on, content to see, or is there content that resonate me resonates more with founders or less, and then lean into what resonates more. But whatever your respective customers are, you can do the same thing now last, I'm a huge believer on watering network. And founders specifically are not necessarily great at this. You're just in time, on relationships.
John Hill: This can also be formulated. So I look at notifications every day. I look at changes in people's networks here, and so like it will definitely shoot Lauren a note
John Hill: based on seeing this, because we worked at Linkedin together. But I try to take 20 actions a day
John Hill: every day, Monday through Friday, and so in the notification section I can see when people move from one city to another, one country and another, I'll introduce them to people I know in those cities, countries just connect people together and give them some, you know. Familiarity. If somebody's moved to a new company, I'll introduce them to people I know at the company. If I know people there. Somebody's celebrating something here like with Lauren, I'll shoot Lauren a direct message. I won't hit the like button. I'll like cut through the clutter. I do that 20 times a day.
John Hill: I do that 100 times a week. I do that 5,000 times a year. I'm celebrating something that somebody's doing in their professional network.
John Hill: I keep my network warm. If I ask any of those people to help you out, they're likely to do it, or more likely to do it because of that. So just focus on intentionality around your network and supporting it. So I'm gonna run through this last part speed of light, because we're down to the last 3 min.
John Hill: like every other venture organization, we have transactional wins. And this, how like the Vc. Landscape generally talks about these things like we sent the first company to go public out of an accelerator through sangrid they ended up getting acquired a little bit later by twilio for 3.1 billion dollars would be, that's like a big deal right? I pill pack was acquired by Amazon to become their online pharmacy for a billion Us. Dollars and their Boston base in my backyard. So I always bring them out.
John Hill: Digital ocean, third, largest cloud based hosting service in the world.
John Hill: and I, one of our 6 companies, go public right? That's how Vc talks about these things. But you can tell that I always view things through a lens of emotion and connectivity. And so I view it a little bit different in each one of those situations. Isaac Sal Donna, at 14 years old.
John Hill: left his parents in Mexico to live with his aunt and uncle in La First generation. University student, built a company that was acquired for 3.1 billion dollars.
John Hill: Now, if any of you have ever met Isaac he would rather talk to code than people
John Hill: beautiful human. I'm just more of an introvert than anything he's our biggest success story. So we throw him on stages all over the world in 2,019. I he's an Oc. Buy an island at that point. We convinced him to fly from La to turn Italy to share with the Italian entrepreneurial ecosystem. His story.
John Hill: He does it because he wants to give back. He wants to give first right Tj. And Elliott, the 2 founders of pill pack post acquisition with Amazon host. All founders, mentors, investors in their offices talk about what it was like to go through an acquisition process with the company like Amazon. They didn't have to do that. They wanted to give back. They wanted to give first, my favorite story, noisy and Benuretski to Russian immigrants to New York, tried to get into tech. So several times
John Hill: they finally get into Colorado, our boulder program. They have the notoriety of being the only founders getting a physical fist fight during program. I don't advocate any of you. Do that, please do not. They reconciled. They are brothers, and I. They ended up going on kind of a rocket ship ride in that process noisy went to Ben and their other co-founder Mitch Wayer and said, Listen, I need to leave. I'm having a mental break. I can't do this anymore.
John Hill: And they worked it so he could take 6 months off to get the help he needed when he was ready, came back into the organization at the end of the day, rang the bell. When they went public Moisei now lives in Miami in a penthouse in Biscayne Bay, overlooking Biscayne Bay, probably for taxi reasons. Driving Grand Prix cars. He's a super unique character.
John Hill: Moisei has now spoken at 35 techstars programs about mental health.
John Hill: He rips that bandaid off again and again and again, and he does it cause he wants to give back and give first our biggest success. Stories financially are also some of our best stories around that idea and concept to give. First, all of you take out of this network as much as possible. Right now we give you full permission to do that
John Hill: when you make it give back, give first give to the next generation of entrepreneurs. Keep this flywheel going. It's in your hands now, now, being an entrepreneur is one of the most difficult things in the world. It's like jumping off the cliff and trying to build a plane before it hits the ground. And, by the way, those people mo vast majority people don't want to be you, but they want to watch you jump off that cliff.
John Hill: The Kaufman Foundation looked at the new start rate of companies full year 2021. It was point 3 4% in the Us. So out of 100,000 people, only 340 started any company. You're already Unicorn before you try to be a unicorn, right? If those people want to watch you jump off the cliff.
John Hill: turn them into ambassadors, leverage their networks right? Cause they wanna live vicariously through your experience. But there are helpers out there who wanna extend the runway and bring the ground up. Textures is one of those. There are definitely others out there. Lean into those people to help yourself.
John Hill: Entrepreneurs are the most amazing.
John Hill: brilliant people on earth you all are. I can say that about you. Don't say that about yourself. That's just weird. But you are amazing human beings.
John Hill: I have had the good fortune of talking in groups like this and watching people. 2, 3 people. Companies go public like in the 10 years I've been here. I've seen that journey. I've seen 2, 3 people companies get acquired for a billion Us dollars. They have witnessed that.
John Hill: So I talked about build a network before you need it. So it's there when you do build a quality network. But the most important thing. And that's what drives me to do this again and again and again is we get to be supportive and help, helpful of dreams, purveyor of dreams, continue to dream big.
John Hill: and I know that you have a team a group of people who will support you in any way they can. For all of you I appreciate the time and attention. II am
John Hill: pretty much on a road show right now. II think this is the 48 talk I've given so far since January first.
John Hill: And I will continue to do this, and I only done like 3 or 4 virtually, and I wish I was with all of you. But please take me up on that offer that if I can support and help you out if you wanna set up meetings, talk, I'm here for you, and otherwise. Good luck to all of you. You're in great hands. These are some of my favorite people that are surrounding you, and I don't say that to every program. So
Lilliana Robinson: thanks, John, that was awesome. Do you have time for like 3 rapid fire questions that are in the chat
Lilliana Robinson: really fast. So first, really, quick, Proton asks, do we need a premium account to access the full search feature? Okay, bye. Everyone on the recording.